.TH ACEUNIT "3" "March 2023" "AceUnit 3.0" "Libraries"
.SH NAME
aceunit, assert, AceUnit_runFixtures, AceUnit_fail \- run unit tests with AceUnit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <aceunit.h>
.PP
.BI "void AceUnit_fail(void);
.BI "void assert(scalar " expression ");
.PP
.BI "void AceUnit_run(const AceUnit_Fixture *" fixtures[] ", AceUnit_Result_t *" result ");
.BI "bool runCatching(void(*" code ")(void));
.BI "int main(int " argc ", const char *" argv[] ");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions described on this page are used to execute unit tests.
The
.BR AceUnit_fail()
function can be called from a unit test to abort the current test case and mark it failed.
The
.BR assert()
macro effectively does the same if its scalar expression evaluates to zero.
.PP
The
.BR AceUnit_run()
function can be called to run fixtures.
See the aceunit(1) program for how to generate fixtures.
The
.BR runCatching()
function is called by
.BR AceUnit_run()
to wrap a test function, possibly catching signals.
The
.BR main()
function is provided for convenience to execute the test cases.
.PP
AceUnit provides different libraries / implementations that you can link with.
.PP
.BR libaceunit-simple.a
will simply run your test cases with no error handling at all and
.BR AceUnit_fail()
calling
.BR abort().
This is a great option to simply get started with test-driven development in C.
.PP
.BR libaceunit-setjmp.a
will run your test cases wrapped in
.BR setjmp()
/
.BR longjmp()
and
.BR AceUnit_fail()
calling
.BR longjmp().
This option should even work in freestanding environments as long as
.BR <setjmp.h>
is available as wel, which usually is the case.
For embedded development, this is the default choice.
.PP
.BR libaceunit-abort.a
will run your test cases wrapped in
.BR setjmp()
/
.BR longjmp()
plus a signal handler for
.BR SIGABRT
with
.BR AceUnit_fail()
calling
.BR abort().
The signal handler catches
.BR SIGABRT
and performs a
.BR longjmp()
back to the runner.
This is a good choice for hosted environments that do not support POSIX and thus have
.BR signal()
but not
.BR fork()
available, like native Amiga OS, Windows, or MS-DOS.
.PP
.BR libaceunit-fork.a
will run test functions wrapped in
.BR fork()
catching eventual failures by detecting a non-zero exit code from the child process.
This is the best choice for POSIX environments.
.SH EXAMPLES
Consider the following module, which provides a function to see whether a year is a leap year:
.PP
.EX
// File: leapyear.h
#ifndef LEAPYEAR_H
#define LEAPYEAR_H

#include <stdbool.h>

extern bool isLeap(int year);

#endif

// File: leapyear.c
#include "leapyear.h"

bool isLeap(int year)
{
    return year % 4 == 0 && year % 100 != 0 || year % 400 == 0;
}
.EE
.PP
Then a unit test module could look like this:
.EX
// File: leapyear_test.o
#include <aceunit.h>

void testLeapYears(void) {
    assert(isLeap(0));
    assert(isLeap(4));
    assert(isLeap(400));
}

void testNonLeapYears(void) {
    assert(!isLeap(1));
    assert(!isLeap(100));
}
.EE
.PP
AceUnit could be used with the following command sequence:
.EX
cc -c -o leapyear.o leapyear.c
cc -c -o leapyear_test.o leapyear_test.c
aceunit leapyear_test.o >unit_test.c
cc -c -o unit_test.o unit_test.c
cc -o unit_test unit_test.o leapyear_test.o leapyear.o -laceunit-abort
\./aceunit
.EE
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Christian Hujer.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
AceUnit online help: <https://nelkinda.com/products/aceunit/>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007, 2023 Christian Hujer
License BSD
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\&\fBaceunit\fR\|(1),
\&\fBabort\fR\|(3),
\&\fBassert\fR\|(3),
\&\fBlongjmp\fR\|(3),
\&\fBsetjmp\fR\|(3),
\&\fBfork\fR\|(2),
\&\fBsignal\fR\|(2),
Full documentation: <https://nelkinda.com/products/aceunit/>
